---
layout: post
title: "slimKEYS"
---

On [my previous post about free tools I use]({% post_url 2006-10-07-free-tools %}), I got a comment from Martin Plante, who used to work for [Xceed](http://xceed.com/), but has started a new company called [slimCODE](http://slimcode.com/). He told me about this tool he created called [slimKEYS](http://slimcode.com/slimKEYS/), which is a universal hotkey manager, that has a plugin that allows you to quickly launch applications and documents.

So I installed it, modified some of the hotkeys (I like `Win+Space` for launching apps), and tried out some different stuff. And I must say, I like it a lot more than the already great launcher [Colibri](http://colibri.leetspeak.org/). One thing I like about slimKEYS is that it looks and feels like a Windows application. Colibri looks very different, which is not necessarily a bad thing, but I think slimKEYS integrates better with my environment.

Because it has a plugin system, I think slimKEYS has a bright future. It's probably easier for Martin to extend slimKEYS himself with new functionality, but it also allows for external developers to develop cool plugins. This opportunity creates a developer community that will help push slimKEYS forward.

The most used plugin for me will be *slimLAUNCH*, for launching applications and documents. You can fully customize what folders slimLAUNCH should watch, and (like any plugin) what hotkey to use. I changed the default `Win+Z` to `Win+Space`. One thing slimLAUNCH doesn’t do yet that Colibri does, is the ability to quickly launch items from the Control Panel, like *“Add or remove programs”*.

The other plugins that are included right now are: *slimLAUNCHthis*, for launching a specific application or document by pressing a hotkey; *slimSIZE*, for moving and/or resizing the active window to a specific location and size; and *slimVOLUME*, for modifying the volume level.

The following plugins are planned: *slimSEARCH*, for quickly searching on your favorite search engines; *slimMESSAGE*, for sending windows messages to any window; *slimSCRIPT*, for executing your own C# or VB.NET code on demand; and *slimPASTE*, for pasting the content of the clipboard, after stripping formatting or variants.